## Data Summary
We retrieved the Oxford-IIT Pet Dataset from the Department of Engineering Science’s Visual Geometry Group at the University of Oxford. The dataset is comprised of 37 different pet categories with roughly 200 images per class. Each image in the dataset is annotated with its breed and species name, a tight bounding box around the head of the animal, and a pixel-level foreground-background segmentation of the pet. The unzipped dataset of images and annotations is approximately 850 MB in size and available for download via BitTorrent with Academic Torrents or from the project webpage of the Visual Geometry Group at the University of Oxford.

## Provenance
The Oxford-IIIT Pet Dataset was developed by researchers at the Visual Geometry Group, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford. The dataset was designed for research in computer vision and pet image classification tasks. All images were collected from publicly available sources, and corresponding annotations were created by the dataset authors. 

## License
The Oxford-IIIT Pet Dataset is available to download for commercial/research purposes under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. The copyright remains with the original owners of the images. Under this license, anyone is free to share and adapt any of the material. However, one must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if any changes were made. If the dataset is transformed, any contributions must be distributed under the same license as the original.

## Ethical Statements
This dataset uses pet images obtained from publicly available, non-identifiable sources and is intended solely for academic research. No personally identifiable information or private ownership data are included. We will comply fully with the Visual Geometry Group’s non-commercial license and citation requirements.

## Data Dictionary
We parse only the relevant data from the dataset we’re using. The following data dictionary outlines the applicable columns used to answer our research question.

| Column | Description | Potential Values |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| image | Name of the image with associated annotations | String formatted as `breed`_`number` |
| class_id | Number indicating which breed of cat/dog an image depicts | Integer 1-37 |
| species | Number indicated whether an image depicts a cat or a dog | Integer 1-2 (1:cat, 2:dog) |

## Explanatory Plots
See the output folder for our exploratory plots generated by the processing script.